NAME
    "biber" - A bibtex replacement for users of biblatex

SYNOPSIS
      biber [options] file[.bcf]
      biber [options] --tool <datasource>

      Creates "file.bbl" using control file "file.bcf" (".bcf" extension is
      optional). Normally use with biblatex requires no options as they are
      all set in biblatex and passed via the ".bcf" file

      In "tool" mode (see B<--tool> option), takes a datasource (defaults to
      "bibtex" datasource) and outputs a copy of the datasource with any command-line
      or config file options applied.

      Please run "biber --help" for option details

DESCRIPTION
    "biber" provides a replacement of the bibtex processor for users of
    biblatex.

OPTIONS
    --annotation-marker=[marker]
        Sets the suffix which can be appended to a BibTeX data source field
        name to indicate that the value of the field is a data annotation.
        The default is "+an".

    --cache
        If running as a PAR::Packer binary, show the cache location and
        exit.

    --clrmacros
        Clears any BibTeX macros (@STRING) between BibLaTeX refsections.
        This prevents BibTeX warnings about macro redefinitions if you are
        using the same datasource several times for different refsections.

    --collate-options|-c [options]
        Options to pass to the "Unicode::Collate" object used for sorting
        (default is 'level => "4", variable => "non-ignorable"'). See
        "perldoc Unicode::Collate" for details.

    --configfile|-g [file]
        Use file as configuration file for "biber". The default is the first
        file found among biber.conf in the current directory,
        "$HOME/.biber.conf", or else the output of "kpsewhich biber.conf".
        In tool mode, (--tool) the biber-tool.conf installed with Biber is
        always used to set default options if a user-defined config file is
        not specified. Use the --tool-config option to view the location of
        the default tool mode config file, copy this file and edit it to
        your requirements for use with this option. The options in the
        default config file reflect the options set by biblatex by default.

    --convert-control
        Converts the .bcf control file into html using an XSLT transform.
        Can be useful for debugging. File is named by appending ".html" to
        .bcf file.

    --decodecharsset=[recode set name]
        The set of characters included in the conversion routine when
        decoding LaTeX macros into UTF-8 (which happens when
        --bblencoding|-E is set to UTF-8). Set to "full" to try harder with
        a much larger set or "base" to use a smaller basic set. Default is
        "base". You may want to try "full" if you have less common UTF-8
        characters in your data source. The recode sets are defined in the
        reencoding data file which can be customised. See the --recodedata
        option and the PDF manual. The virtual set name "null" may be
        specified which effectively turns off macro decoding.

    --debug|-D
        Turn on debugging for "biber".

    --dieondatamodel
        Exit immediately with error if using "--validate-datamodel" and a
        datamodel validation error is found. Default is to warn and
        continue.

    --dot-include=section,field,xdata,crossref,xref,related
        Specifies the element to include in GraphViz DOT output format if
        the output format is 'dot'. You can also choose to display crossref,
        xref, xdata and/or related entry connections. The default if not
        specified is "--dot_include=section,xdata,crossref,xref".

    --fixinits
        Try to fix broken multiple initials when they have no space between
        them in BibTeX data sources. That is, "A.B. Clarke" becomes "A. B.
        Clarke" before name parsing. This can slightly mess up things like
        "{U.K. Government}" and other esoteric cases.

    --help|-h
        Show this help message.

    --input-directory [directory]
        .bcf and data files will be looked for first in the directory. See
        the biber PDF documentation for the other possibilities and how this
        interacts with the "--output_directory" option.

    --input-encoding|-e [encoding]
        Specify the encoding of the data source file(s). Default is "UTF-8"
        Normally it's not necessary to set this as it's passed via the .bcf
        file from biblatex's "bibencoding" option. See "perldoc
        Encode::Supported" for a list of supported encodings. The legacy
        option --bibencoding is supported as an alias.

    --input-format=bibtex|biblatexml
        Biber input format. This option only means something in tool mode
        (see tool option) since normally the input format of a data source
        is specified in the .bcf file and therefore from the \addbibresouce
        macro in BibLaTeX. The default value when in tool mode is 'bibtex'

    --isbn10
        Force all ISBNs to 10-digit versions on output. This will convert
        the ISBN internally to an ISBN object which will not have hyphens on
        output. If you use this option and want an ISBN with hyphens in the
        correct place on output, use the --isbn-normalise option.

    --isbn13
        Force all ISBNs to 13-digit versions on output. This will convert
        the ISBN internally to an ISBN object which will not have hyphens on
        output. If you use this option and want an ISBN with hyphens in the
        correct place on output, use the --isbn-normalise option.

    --isbn-normalise
        Normalise ISBNs with hyphens in the correct places on output.

    --logfile [file]
        Use file.blg as the name of the logfile.

    --listsep=[sep]
        Use sep as the separator for BibTeX data source list fields.
        Defaults to BibTeX's usual 'and'.

    --mincrossrefs|-m [number]
        Set threshold for crossrefs.

    --namesep=[sep]
        Use "sep" as the separator for BibTeX data source name fields.
        Defaults to BibTeX's usual 'and'.

    --no-bblxml-schema
        When writing bblxml output, don't generate an RNG XML schema from
        the data model.

    --no-bltxml-schema
        When reading or writing biblatexml data sources, don't generate an
        RNG XML schema from the data model.

    --noconf
        Don't look for a configfile.

    --nodieonerror
        Don't exit on errors, just log and continue as far as possible. This
        can be useful if the error is something from, for example, the
        underlying BibTeX parsing C library which can complain about parsing
        errors which can be ignored.

    --nolog
        Do not write any logfile.

    --nostdmacros
        Don't automatically define any standard macros like month
        abbreviations. If you also define these yourself, this option can be
        used to suppress macro redefinition warnings.

    --noxname
        Disable exended name processing in bibtex data sources. Can be
        useful if you don't use this and it causes problems due to
        auto-detection of extended name format.

    --onlylog
        Do not write any message to screen.

    --others-string=[string]
        Use string as the final name in a name field which implies "et al".
        Defaults to BibTeX's usual 'others'.

    --output-align
        Align field values in neat columns in output. Effect depends on the
        output format. Default is false. The legacy option --tool_align is
        supported as an alias.

    --output-annotation-marker=[marker]
        As --annotation-marker but for tool mode bibtex output. The default
        is "+an".

    --output-directory [directory]
        Output files (including log files) are output to directory instead
        of the current directory. Input files are also looked for in
        directory before current directory (but after "--input_directory" if
        that is specified).

    --output-encoding|-E [encoding]
        Specify the encoding of the output ".bbl" file. Default is "UTF-8".
        Normally it's not necessary to set this as it's passed via the .bcf
        file from biblatex's "texencoding" option. See "perldoc
        Encode::Supported" for a list of supported encodings. The legacy
        option --bblencoding is supported as an alias.

    --output-indent=[num]
        Indentation for body of entries in output. Effect depends on the
        output format. Defaults to 2. The legacy option --tool_indent is
        supported as an alias.

    --output-fieldcase=upper|lower|title
        Case for field names output. Effect depends on the output format.
        Defaults to 'upper'. The legacy option --tool_fieldcase is supported
        as an alias.

    --output-field-order=[field1, ... fieldn]
        When outputting bibtex format data in tool mode, this option allows
        the customisation of the order of fields within entries. The value
        is a comma-separated string of field names or classes of fields.
        Fields not mentioned in the list are output in sorted name order
        after the explicitly specified fields. The classes of fields are:

        'names' - All name list fields 'lists' - All non-name list fields
        'dates' - All date fields

        By default, its value is 'options,abstract,names,lists,dates'.

    --output-file|-O [file]
        Output to file instead of basename.bbl file is relative to
        --output_directory, if set (absolute paths in this case are stripped
        to filename only). file can be absolute if --output_directory is not
        set. file can be '-' to output directly to STDOUT. The legacy option
        --outfile is supported as an alias.

    --output-format=dot|bibtex|biblatexml|bbl|bblxml
        Biber output format. Default if not specified is of course, bbl. Use
        dot to output a GraphViz DOT file instead of .bbl. This is a
        directed graph of the bibliography data showing entries and, as
        requested, sections and fields. You must process this file with
        "dot", e.g. "dot -Tsvg test.dot -o test.svg" to render the graph.
        See the --dot_include option to select what is included in the DOT
        output. bblxml is an XML version of the bbl format which you could
        transform using XSLT. By default, when outputting bblxml, a RelaxNG
        XML schema is generated from the active data modeal and saved with a
        rng extension along with the output file name (unless the
        --no-bblxml-schema option is specified). You may validate the bblxml
        using the schema with the --validate-bblxml option. The legacy
        option --outformat is supported as an alias.

    --output-listsep=[sep]
        As --listsep but for tool mode bibtex output. Defaults to BibTeX's
        usual 'and'.

    --output-macro-fields=[field1, ... fieldn]
        A comma-separated list of field names whose values are, on output,
        treated as BibTeX macros. Effectively this means that they are not
        wrapped in braces. Effect depends on the output format. The legacy
        option --tool_macro_fields is supported as an alias.

    --output-namesep=[sep]
        As --namesep but for tool mode bibtex output. Defaults to BibTeX's
        usual 'and'.

    --output-resolve
        Convenience option to set all of the --output-resolve-* options to
        'true'. The legacy option --tool-resolve is supported as an alias.

    --output-resolve-xdata
        Whether to resolve XDATA inheritance in tool mode. Defaults to
        'false'.

    --output-resolve-crossrefs
        Whether to resolve CROSSREF/XREF inheritance in tool mode. Defaults
        to 'false'.

    --output-resolve-sets
        Whether to resolve data sets in tool mode. Defaults to 'false'.

    --output-safechars
        Try to convert UTF-8 chars into LaTeX macros when writing the
        output. This can prevent unknown char errors when using PDFLaTeX and
        inputenc as this doesn't understand all of UTF-8. Note, it is better
        to switch to XeTeX or LuaTeX to avoid this situation. By default
        uses the --output_safecharsset "base" set of characters. The legacy
        option --bblsafechars is supported as an alias.

    --output-safecharsset=[recode set name]
        The set of characters included in the conversion routine for
        --output_safechars. Set to "full" to try harder with a much larger
        set or "base" to use a basic set. Default is "base" which is fine
        for most use cases. You may need to load more macro packages to deal
        with the results of "full" (Dings, Greek characters, special symbols
        etc.). The recode sets are defined in the reencoding data file which
        can be customised. See the --recodedata option and the PDF manual.
        The legacy option --bblsafecharsset is supported as an alias. The
        virtual set name "null" may be specified which effectively turns off
        macro encoding.

    --output-xname
        When output is a .bib BibTeX file in tool mode, whether to output
        names the eXtended BibTeX name field format.

    --output-xnamesep=[sep]
        As --xnamesep but for tool mode bibtex output. Default is '='.

    --quiet|-q
        Log only errors. If this option is used more than once, don't even
        log errors.

    --recodedata=[file]
        The data file to use for the reencoding between UTF-8 and LaTeX
        macros. It defines the sets specified with the --output_safecharsset
        and --decodecharsset options. It defaults to recode_data.xml in the
        same directory as Biber's Recode.pm module. See the PDF
        documentation for the format of this file. If this option is used,
        then file should be somewhere "kpsewhich" can find it.

    --noskipduplicates
        Don't skip duplicate bibliography keys if found. The detection of
        duplicate keys is done across all data sources. Sometimes you might
        need duplicates when using several data sources across several
        refsections in which case you might need to use this option.

    --sortdebug
        Add comments to output with sorting keys. Useful for debugging.

    --sortcase=true|false
        Case-sensitive sorting (default is true).

    --sortlocale|-l [locale]
        Set the locale to be used for sorting. The locale is used to add
        CLDR tailoring to the sort (if available for the locale).

    --sortupper=true|false
        Whether to sort uppercase before lowercase when sorting (default is
        true).

    --ssl-nointernalca
        Don't try to use the default Mozilla CA certificates when using
        HTTPS to fetch remote data. This assumes that the user will set one
        of the perl LWP::UserAgent module environment variables to find the
        CA certs.

    --ssl-noverify-host
        Turn off host verification when using HTTPS to fetch remote data
        sources. You may need this if the SSL certificate is self-signed for
        example.

    --strip-comments
        In tool mode, strip all comments from the output file.

    --tool
        Run in tool mode. This mode is datasource centric rather than
        document centric. biber reads a datasource (and a config file if
        specified), applies the command-line and config file options to the
        datasource and writes a new datasource. Essentially, this allows you
        to change your data sources using biber's transformation options
        (such as source mapping, sorting etc.)

    --tool-config
        Show the location of the default tool mode config file and exit.
        Useful when you need to copy this file and customise it.

    --trace|T
        Turn on tracing. Also turns on --debug|d and additionally provides a
        lot of low-level tracing information in the log.

    -u  Alias for --input-encoding=UTF-8

    -U  Alias for --output-encoding=UTF-8

    --validate-bblxml
        Schema validate bblXML output against a schema auto-generated from
        the BibLaTeX datamodel. The schema will be auto-generated with the
        name of the .bbl file with a .rng extension. The generated schema
        can be kept and used with standard XML editors to validate the
        output during XSL development.

    --validate-bltxml
        Schema validate BibLaTeXML datasources against a schema
        auto-generated from the BibLaTeX datamodel. The schema will be
        auto-generated with the name of the .bcf file with a .rng extension.
        The generated schema can be kept and used with standard XML editors
        to validate the datasource during datasource development. The schema
        validation does not validate all semantic aspects of the datamodel
        (i.e. the data model constraints)---for this use the
        "--validate-datamodel" option.

    --validate-config
        Schema validate the biber config file.

    --validate-control
        Schema validate the .bcf biblatex control file.

    --validate-datamodel|-V
        Validate the data against a data model.

    --version|-v
        Display version number.

    --wraplines|-w
        Wrap lines in the .bbl file.

    --xnamesep=[sep]
        Use sep as the separator between namepart names and the namepart
        values in the eXtended name format. See biber docs. Default is '='.

    --xsvsep=[sep]
        Use sep as the separator for fields of format type "xsv" in the data
        model. A Perl regexp can be specified. Defaults to a single comma
        surround by optional whitespace (\s*,\s*).

AUTHOR
    François Charette, "firmicus at ankabut.net" Philip Kime, "Philip at
    kime.org.uk"

BUGS & DOCUMENTATION
    To see the full documentation, run texdoc biber or get the biber.pdf
    manual from SourceForge.

    Please report any bugs or feature requests on our Github tracker at
    <https://github.com/plk/biber/issues>.

COPYRIGHT & LICENSE
    Copyright 2009-2017 François Charette and Philip Kime, all rights
    reserved.

    This module is free software. You can redistribute it and/or modify it
    under the terms of the Artistic License 2.0.

    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
    without any warranty; without even the implied warranty of
    merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.

